# Browser Restrcitions

## 1.4.3 Browser Restrictions

- If an unknown document context, multiple global namespaces, and additional security concerns aren’t bad enough, web browsers actively prohibit certain actions that often directly affect third-party scripts.
- For example, AJAX has become a staple tool of web developers for fetching and submitting data without refreshing the page.
- But the web browser’s same-origin policy prevents XmlHttpRequest from reaching domains other than the one you’re on (see `figure 1.9`).
- If you’re writing a third-party script that needs to get or send data back to an application endpoint on your own domain, you’ll have to find other ways to do it.

- In the same vein, web browsers also commonly place restrictions on the ability of applications to set or even read third-party cookies.
- Without them, your users won’t be able to “log in” to your application or remember actions between subsequent requests.
- Depending on the complexity of your application, not being able to set or read third-party cookies can be a real hindrance.

**`Figure 1.9`** Failes cross-domain AJAX request from localhost to [google.com](google.com) in Google Chrome

- Unfortunately, this list of challenges is just the tip of the iceberg.
- Third-party JavaScript development is fraught with pitfalls, because at the end of the day, the web browser wasn’t built with embedded applications and third-party code in mind.
- Browsers are getting better, and new features are being introduced that alleviate some of the burden of doing third-party development, but it’s still an uphill battle, and supportin old browsers is typically a must for any kind of distributed application.

- But don’t worry.
- You’ve already made the fine decision of purchasing this book, which will cover the problems facing your third-party JavaScript code.
- And as an added bonus, we’ll even tell you how to solve them.

---

#### From [[_4_challenges-3rd-party-widget]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_4_challenges-3rd-party-widget]: _4_challenges-3rd-party-widget "Challenges"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
