# Outputting HTML

## 3.1 Outputting HTML

The fundamental first piece to actually having a visible, interactive, embedded widget
is outputting HTML on the publisher’s page.

But if you recall from chapter 2, you’ve already learned how to create script elements and append them to the page for the purpose of loading your application files.

How is this any different?

Location, location, location.

When you were appending script elements to the page, you didn’t actually care where they were situated; script elements load their target file regardless of their DOM location.

It’s a different story now that you’re outputting your application’s visual elements.

If you don’t render your application’s HTML where the publisher expects you to, you won’t have a very successful application.

We’ll cover two methods for outputting HTML on the publisher’s page.

The first method, using document.write, outputs text to the document stream as it’s being pro-
cessed by the browser. The second method involves converting HTML to DOM elements and inserting them next to a known location, like the location of the script include snippet.

Additionally, we’ll look at how you can render multiple instances of your widget on the same page, and look at how the publisher can define their own render targets.

First up—outputting HTML the old-fashioned way with document.write.

---

#### From [[_html-css]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_html-css]: ../_html-css "3️⃣ HTML & CSS"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
