# Cross-Origin Resouce Sharing

## **4.4 Cross-origin Resource Sharing**

The two techniques we covered so far—JSONP and subdomain proxies—can be
loosely described as “hacks.” We showed how you can bypass the same-origin policy
restrictions by utilizing some elements in a way they weren’t designed to be used.
Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is the first “official” technique. It’s actually a
W3C Working Draft that defines how the browser and the server can communicate
across domains in a controlled manner. CORS accomplishes this through a series of

special HTTP headers that allow both parties (the browser and the server) to deter-
mine whether the request should succeed or fail.

Before we go over those headers, first, some history. Cross-origin support was ini-
tially proposed for inclusion in VoiceXML, the W3C standard format for interactive

voice dialogues between a human and a computer. It was decided that the cross-origin

mechanism wasn’t specific to VoiceXML, and was eventually separated into an Imple-
mentation Note. Another working group—W3C WebApps WG—with help from major

browser vendors began an effort to formalize the document into a Working Draft.
CORS is now on track toward formal W3C Recommendation status. But don’t let its
unfinalized state scare you—CORS already has significant browser support, and any
changes to the specification going forward are likely to be relatively minor.
In this section, you’ll learn how to send simple HTTP requests between different
origins with CORS. You’ll also learn about CORS preflight requests, and how they can

be used to validate client access to a resource. Lastly, we’ll also go over browser sup-
port issues; not all browsers have implemented the full CORS specification.

## **Sub-chapters**

- [[1_simple-http]]
- [[2_external-iframes]]
- [[3_preflight-requests]]
- [[4_browser-support]]

---

#### From [[_server-com]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_simple-http]: 1_simple-http "1_simple-http"
[2_external-iframes]: 2_external-iframes "External iFrames"
[3_preflight-requests]: 3_preflight-requests "Preflight Requests"
[4_browser-support]: 4_browser-support "Browser Support"
[_server-com]: ../_server-com "4️⃣ Server Com"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
