# Defensive HTML & CSS

## 3.3 Defensive HTML and CSS

Before you begin to write any HTML or CSS, you’ll have to make an important decision
regarding the look and feel of your application. Do you want your application to look
the same everywhere? Or do you want the application to inherit the native look and
feel of the page on which it’s hosted? Your answer will have a profound effect on your
strategy for rendering your app.

One thing is constant: at some level, you’ll be practicing what we call defensive ren-
dering. By defensive, we mean taking steps to output HTML and CSS that minimize the

impact of the parent page on your application. The less you want your widget
impacted by the parent page, the more steps you’ll have to take. These steps can be as
small as namespacing your HTML and CSS to reduce name conflicts, or overspecifying
your CSS rules so they take priority over rules from the parent page. For widgets that
want complete immunity from the parent page, it could also mean serving your widget
on a completely separate DOM, embedded in an iframe.
We’ll get to iframes later in this chapter. For now, we’ll focus on rendering HTML
and CSS that live on the same DOM as the publisher’s page. For widgets that aim to

offer some level of customization, this can be the most flexible solution for publish-
ers, since the publisher can easily target your elements and style them to their prefer-
ences. Unfortunately, this is also the downside! The publisher could unknowingly

have CSS rules and/or JavaScript code that inadvertently target your widget and
wreak havoc.
We’ll look at a number of ways to shield your application’s HTML and CSS from the
publisher’s code. First, you’ll learn about HTML and CSS namespaces. Then, you’ll
learn about CSS specificity, and how the parent page’s styles can override your own.

Finally, you’ll learn techniques for overruling the page’s parent styles, by overspecify-
ing your CSS and abusing the !important keyword. First up, namespaces.

---

#### From [[_html-css]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_html-css]: ../_html-css "3️⃣ HTML & CSS"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
