# Perceived Performance

## **9.3 Perceived Performance**

Earlier in this chapter, we demonstrated a number of techniques for deferring
resources from your initial payload. But sometimes, by not downloading those
resources early, you impact user experience.
Let’s look at an example involving the Camera Stork application. Suppose that

you’ve decided to defer initializing a cross-domain channel (iframe) used by the Cam-
era Stork widget. Instead of loading this channel up front, you’ve decided to only load

the channel when a user actually submits a product review. As a result, your initial pay-
load is smaller and you can render the widget faster—which is great, but it comes at a

cost. Now, when users hit the widget’s Submit button, they’ll end up encountering lag.
That’s because the user will have to wait for the channel to initialize before it can
transfer data and return a Success message. As a result, users will probably perceive
your widget as being slow, even if it was really fast at initializing up front.
In this section, we’ll introduce a number of tricks that make your application feel
faster in the face of lag when you’ve intentionally deferred resources, or when they’re
just loading slowly. The tricks we’re about to describe—optimistic user actions and

rendering before the document ready event—are all about improving your applica-
tion’s perceived performance.

## **Sub-chapters**

- [[1_optim-user-actions]]
- [[2_render-before-doc]]

---

#### From [[_performance]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_optim-user-actions]: 1_optim-user-actions "Optim User Actions"
[2_render-before-doc]: 2_render-before-doc "Render Before doc"
[_performance]: ../_performance "9️⃣ Performance"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
