# Expose Public Functions

## **8.1.3 Exposing public functions**

When initialization is complete, the remaining public functions of your SDK should become available to publishers. If you recall from Stork.init, these functions are loaded via a separate file, sdk/lib.js. We’ve stubbed out the contents of this file here:

```javascript
(function (window, undefined) {
  var Stork = window.Stork;
  Stork.productWidget = function (options) {};
  Stork.listen = function (eventName, callback) {};
  Stork.unlisten = function (eventName, callback) {};
})(this);
```

The first function, Stork.productWidget, is strictly a public version of the widget loading and rendering code we covered in chapters 2 and 3. But instead of deriving the product ID and target DOM location from the script include snippet, they’re passed explicitly as function arguments. Here’s an example implementation:

```javascript
Stork.productWidget = function (options) {
  options = options || {};
  var productId = options.id;
  var targetDOM = options.target;
  loadProductData(productId, function (productData) {
    renderWidget(targetDOM, productData);
  });
};
```

This should be straightforward—you’re merely putting a public face on the code you’ve already written. The helper functions referenced here—loadProductData and renderWidget—should be declared inside sdk/lib.js as private functions. The takeaway here is that writing public functions for functionality you already have (rendering widgets) is easy. You just need to provide a sane interface for publishers to invoke your code. Next, let’s take a look at a completely new functionality: providing publishers with functions for listening to internal application events.

---

#### From [[_1_sdk-implementation]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_1_sdk-implementation]: _1_sdk-implementation "SDK Implementation"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
