# 🔟 Debugging & Testing

1. Debugging production code using **proxies and switches**
2. Stepping through code with the **JavaScript debugger**
3. **Testing with [QUnit](https://qunitjs.com/) and [Hiro](https://github.com/valueof/hiro)**

## **10.1 Debugging**

## **10.2 Testing**

## **10.3 Summary**

- Testing and debugging are things that most developers do reluctantly.
- It makes sense to debug—after all, if you’re debugging, it means that there’s a bug, someone found
  it, and this person is probably not happy about the whole situation.
- But now that you know how to approach bugs in third-party widgets, you’re able to put all the pieces of
  information together and fix your next bug much quicker.
- In addition to that, you know how to **set up your testing and debugging environment in an unobtrusive but
  extremely helpful way**.

- Figure 10.7 Example **Hiro** output:
- green borders around each suite mean that both of them successfully passed.
- Once again, everything works as expected.

- And though debugging isn’t pleasant, writing tests is fun!
- In this chapter, we covered two testing frameworks: **[QUnit](https://qunitjs.com/) and [Hiro](https://github.com/valueof/hiro)**.
- Knowing how to use just one of them should be sufficient for covering your widget’s functionality with tests.
- So go write some tests!
- The earlier you start, the more confident you’ll be when implementing new features and changing code.
- And **the more confident you are, the faster you can iterate with your third-party JavaScript application**.
- What’s next? Profit!

#### Related

- [[debugging]]
- [[testing]]

---

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[debugging]: debugging "Debugging"
[testing]: testing "Testing"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
