## **1.2.1 Embedded Widgets**

**Embedded widgets** (**often third-party widgets**) are perhaps the most common use case of third-party scripts.  
These are **typically small, interactive applications that are rendered and made accessible on a publisher’s website, but load and submit resources to and from a separate set of servers**.

Widgets can vary widely in complexity; they can be as simple as a graphic that displays the weather in your geographic location, or as complex as a full-featured instant messaging client.

**Widgets enable website publishers to embed applications into their web pages with little effort**.  
They’re typically **easy to install**; more often than not publishers need only insert a small HTML snippet into their web page source code to get started.  
Since they’re **entirely JavaScript-based, widgets don’t require the publisher to install and maintain any software that executes on their servers**, which means less maintenance and upkeep.

Some **businesses are built entirely on the development and distribution of embedded widgets**.

### **Disqus**

Earlier we mentioned **Disqus**, a web startup based in San Francisco.  
**Disqus** develops a commenting widget `(see figure 1.3)` that serves as a drop-in commenting section for blogs, online publications, and other websites.  
Their product is driven almost entirely by third-party JavaScript.  
It **uses JavaScript to fetch commenting data from the server**, **render the comments as HTML on the page**, and **capture form data from other commenters—in other words**, everything.  
It’s installed on websites using a **simple HTML snippet that totals five lines of code**.  
**Disqus** is an example of a **product that’s only usable in its distributed form**; you’ll need to visit a publisher’s page to use it.
But **widgets aren’t always standalone products like this**.  
Often they’re **“portable” extensions of larger, more traditional stay-at-home web applications**.

### **Google Maps**

For example, consider **Google Maps**, arguably the web’s most popular mapping application.  
Users browse to https://maps.google.com to view interactive maps of locations all over the world.  
Google Maps also provides directions by car and public transit, satellite imagery, and even street views using on-location photography.

---

#### From [[_2_uses-3rd-party-js]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_2_uses-3rd-party-js]: _2_uses-3rd-party-js "Uses of 3rd Party"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
