## **6.1.2 Disabling third-party cookies**

As we’ve alluded to several times so far in this chapter, third-party cookies can be dis-
abled by the browser. Typically, this is a user-configurable browser setting where the

**Figure 6.2 Disabling third-party cookies in Google Chrome 14**

user has to go out of their way to disable them (see figure 6.2). But in some browsers,
third-party cookies are disabled by default.

If third-party cookies are disabled, does this mean that the session-restoring sce-
nario we just covered in section 6.1.1 will work? The answer is maybe. Different brows-
ers have different interpretations of what it means to have third-party cookies

disabled. Some browsers disable all reading and writing of cookies, rendering them
completely unusable. Other browsers prevent setting new cookies, but if a cookie
already exists for a third-party domain, the browser still sends that cookie with any
HTTP request sent to that domain.
Table 6.2 describes how each major browser behaves when third-party cookies are
disabled, ordered from most restrictive to least restrictive. Send means the browser will
send existing cookies to third-party domains, and Write means cookies can be set on a
third-party domain.

As you can see from table 6.2, Chrome and Firefox are the most restrictive brows-
ers when it comes to third-party cookies being disabled. They’ll neither send previ-
ously stored cookies to third-party servers, nor allow new cookies to be stored for

those domains. Unfortunately, there are no known workarounds for these browsers,
which means the session scenario from section 6.1 is completely hosed. That doesn’t
mean sessions are completely dead for these browsers—we’ll introduce a cookieless
approach later in this chapter.

**Table 6.2 Browser behavior when third-party cookies are disabled**

IE, Opera, and Safari are more forgiving. In those browsers, if a cookie is already

being stored for a particular domain, any HTTP requests to that domain will also trans-
mit that cookie, even to third-party domains. In other words, if your application can

find a way to set a cookie in these browsers, it can continue restoring a user’s session
whenever it’s loaded. We’ll show you how to use this to your advantage later in this
chapter.

NEW BROWSER VERSIONS MAY TREAT COOKIES DIFFERENTLY Please note that
the values in table 6.2 represent the state of browser behavior today, and are
likely to change in the future. In fact, we’ve had to change this table over the

course of writing this book. At one point, Chrome was less restrictive, and per-
mitted transmitting third-party cookies when the associated browser setting

was disabled. That changed in early 2012 when Chrome version 18 was
released, which introduced more restrictive cookie behaviour.

---

#### From [[_1_cookies]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_1_cookies]: _1_cookies "Cookies"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
