# IE P3P Headers

## **6.1.3 Internet Explorer and P3P headers**

Before we move on, you might’ve noticed that in table 6.2’s Disabled by default column,
there’s a comment beside Internet Explorer. By default, Internet Explorer employs a
Medium security policy, which disables third-party cookies on sites that don’t provide

a compact privacy policy (see figure 6.3). Compact privacy policies are part of the Plat-
form for Privacy Preferences Specification (see http://www.w3.org/TR/P3P/), a pro-
tocol designed by the W3C (P3P; Platform for Privacy Preferences Project) that allows

websites to declare how they intend to use data collected from users.
What this means is that, in order to set third-party cookies for Internet Explorer
users (with default security settings), you need to return a special P3P HTTP header
with your resources that declares how your service intends to employ user data. This
header needs to be returned with all HTTP responses for your resources, not just those
that set cookies. This means static resources, AJAX endpoints, iframes—everything.

Here’s an example of a P3P header returned from a resource that specifies a com-
pact privacy policy:

P3P: CP="ADM DEV PSA COM OUR STP IND"
Each of those three-letter values are part of the P3P specification and represent what,

with whom, and in what way the service will make use of the user’s data. Table 6.3 elab-
orates on these values.

Please note that this table only describes those values from the example P3P
response. There are actually dozens of possible values in the P3P specification, so many
that we can’t list them all here. When you create your own P3P header to return with

your resources, please make sure that it accurately reflects the practices of your busi-
ness, and isn’t just copied carte blanche (from this book or elsewhere). If you need

help generating a P3P policy, check out p3ptoolbox.com for resources.

**Figure 6.3 Default privacy settings in Internet Explorer 8. By default, third-party cookies without a compact privacy policy are blocked.**

THE STATE OF THE P3P PROTOCOL Despite becoming a W3C recommendation
in 2002, only Internet Explorer actually implements the P3P protocol, and
development on the specification has since ceased. For these reasons, many
consider P3P to be “dead,” and many popular websites don’t provide valid
P3P headers. Regardless of how you feel about P3P headers, the fact is that if
you plan to use third-party cookies with Internet Explorer, you’ll need to
investigate using them.
When you’ve configured your servers to return a valid P3P header for your resources,
Internet Explorer will allow users to write and transmit third-party cookies to your
domain under its default security setting. This is extremely valuable because most

users don’t change their default browser settings. If using P3P headers sounds intimi-
dating, the good news is that you’ll likely only have to perform this configuration once

(or whenever your application’s privacy policies change).

---

#### From [[_1_cookies]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_1_cookies]: _1_cookies "Cookies"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
