# Cookies

## **6.1 3rd-Party Cookies**

When normal web applications want to persist some kind of session or state, they use
cookies. Cookies are small pieces of data the browser persists between HTTP

requests—which is otherwise a stateless protocol. When a user logs in to a web applica-
tion, the server returns a cookie that identifies that user’s session. This cookie is saved

on the browser and sent back to the server with each subsequent HTTP request to the

same website. The server uses this cookie to identify the user and render any user-
specific data in its responses.

The browser considers a cookie to be a third-party cookie when that cookie is being

transferred to or from a third-party domain. So if you’re visiting a website at pub-
lisher.com, and somewhere on that page a resource is requested from camera-
stork.com, any cookies transmitted between the user’s browser and camerastork.com

are considered to be third-party. This includes resources loaded inside an external
iframe—cookies that are written or sent inside an iframe whose domain differs from
the parent document domain are also considered third-party.
To review, table 6.1 highlights under which situations cookies are considered to be
third-party.

**Table 6.1 Cookies set on domains that differ from the parent document are considered third-party.**

The term third-party cookie is more than just semantics. Because third parties aren’t nec-
essarily acknowledged by the browser user, those applications can set and read cookies

(on their own domain) without the user’s consent or knowledge. This can lead to pri-
vacy issues where distributed third-party applications have the power to track a user’s

browsing history by using unique identifying cookies. It’s for these reasons that dis-
abling third-party cookies happens by default in some browsers, and is a recom-
mended setting in others.

This section is all about getting acquainted with third-party cookies. We’ll look at
how you can use third-party cookies to set and restore application state. Then you’ll
see how to disable third-party cookies in the browser, and how this setting affects

browsers differently. Last, we’ll cover how to detect when third-party cookies are dis-
abled, and how to recover gracefully.

## **Sub-Chapters**

- [[1_set-read-sessions]]
- [[2_disable-cookies]]
- [[3_ie-p3p-headers]]
- [[4_detect-unavailable]]

---

#### From [[_auth-sessions]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_set-read-sessions]: 1_set-read-sessions "Set, Read Sessions"
[2_disable-cookies]: 2_disable-cookies "2_disable-cookies"
[3_ie-p3p-headers]: 3_ie-p3p-headers "IE P3P Headers"
[4_detect-unavailable]: 4_detect-unavailable "Detect Unavailable"
[_auth-sessions]: ../_auth-sessions "6️⃣ Auth & Sessions"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
