# Load easyXDM

---

## **5.3.1 Loading and initializing easyXDM**

In chapter 2, you learned how to ship external JavaScript libraries with your third-
party application by placing them on your global namespace object, and easyXDM is

no different. Like jQuery, easyXDM provides a no-conflict mode through a special
method named noConflict. The following code snippet demonstrates using this
method to place a copy of the easyXDM library in the Stork namespace:
Stork.easyXDM = easyXDM.noConflict('Stork');
You’ll notice that this method takes a single formal parameter—a string representing
the name of your namespace object on the global window object. This is so that
easyXDM can locate itself via the global window object when using the same-origin

transport. You’re not likely to use this transport as a third-party application (because
you’re working with different origins), but you should specify this parameter to be safe.
Additionally, the easyXDM library must be present on both consumer (parent) and
provider (iframe) pages. This means you’ll need to load the library in both locations,
but you don’t need any additional configuration; easyXDM will automatically detect
which context it’s in.
Another important thing is that you don’t need to manually create any iframes with
easyXDM—it’ll handle that work for you. All you need is to do is to create a new

instance of either easyXDM.Socket for simple messages or easyXDM.Rpc for configur-
ing a JSON-RPC interface between the consumer and provider. Both the Socket and

Rpc constructor functions accept a variety of different options, described in table 5.3.
As you can see from table 5.3, both the Socket and Rpc constructors accept a special
callback function named onReady. This function will be called after the provider

iframe is fully loaded and the easyXDM instance inside is initialized. After your call-
back fires, it’s safe to send messages back and forth. We’ll continue by showing you

how to send simple messages using easyXDM.Socket, and then more complicated RPC
examples using easyxdm.RPC.

### From [[_3_easy-xdm]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_3_easy-xdm]: _3_easy-xdm "Easy XDM"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
