# Easy XDM

## **5.3 Simple cross-domain messaging with easyXDM**

Now that you’ve read a lot about cross-domain communication and learned all these techniques, you might want to know that there’s a well-tested JavaScript library that takes care of all the pain points and provides a relatively simple API to send messages back and forth between frames hosted on different domains. This library was written by Øyvind Sean Kinsey and is called easyXDM (easy cross-domain messaging). At its core, easyXDM provides a transport stack capable of passing string messages between the main document and an iframe inside that document. The library implements the different cross-domain messaging techniques we discussed in this chapter and picks the most suitable for the current browser. For modern browsers, easyXDM uses `window.postMessage` and for IE6 and 7 it uses FlashTransport. In case it can’t reli- ably detect which transport to use, the library simply falls back to the `HashTransport`.

Another great thing about easyXDM is that—in addition to simple message passing—it allows you to define special interfaces that can be used to call remote methods in the iframe. We’ll show you how to do that later in this chapter, but for now let’s see how to send and receive simple string messages using easyXDM.Socket. Throughout this section, we’ll use the Camera Stork product widget as an example.

Please note that in this section we’ll use easyXDM’s terms when describing the com-
municating parties. The library describes two parties: a consumer—the document that

loads an iframe—and a provider—the document inside that iframe. To communicate

between the consumer and the provider, easyXDM uses a stack of transports. All trans-
ports supported by the library are shown in table 5.2.

These transports should seem familiar: they’re the window-messaging fallback
techniques we’ve covered so far in this chapter, with a few additions we didn’t cover.

Getting familiar with these transports will help you in reading easyXDM’s documenta-
tion in the future.

**Table 5.2 Transports supported by easyXDM**

## **Sub-chapters**

- [[1_load-easy-xdm]]
- [[2_easy-xdm-socket]]
- [[3_easy-xdm-rpc]]

---

#### From [[_cross-domain-messaging]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_load-easy-xdm]: 1_load-easy-xdm "Load easyXDM"
[2_easy-xdm-socket]: 2_easy-xdm-socket "easyXDM.Socket"
[3_easy-xdm-rpc]: 3_easy-xdm-rpc "easyXDM.Rpc"
[_cross-domain-messaging]: ../_cross-domain-messaging "5️⃣ Cross-Domain Messaging"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
