# Publisher Test Page

## **2.1.1 Publisher Test Page**

Let’s start with the publisher test page. This is the page where you’ll load your third-
party script and the environment in which that script will be executed. Any page will

do, but we’ll start with a bare-bones HTML file:

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Publisher Test Page</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Publisher Test Page</h1>
<!-- script include snippet here -->
</body>
</html>
Ironically, the part of this example you’ll want to focus on is the part that’s missing:
the script include snippet. This is the HTML snippet that you’ll give to publishers
that will load your third-party script on their page. We don’t have one yet, so keep it
blank for now; we’ll come back to this later.
Now, this example makes for a boring test page; it’s a blank page with a header. But
this is just to get you started. In an ideal world, your test page will be representative of

a typical page from your target audience. For example, if your product widget is tar-
geted primarily at bloggers, the test page should illustrate how the widget might

appear on a typical blog. You could even use a static copy of a known publisher’s web
page. The closer your test page reflects the environment in which your script will be
deployed, the fewer surprises you’ll face later.

---

#### From [[_1_config-env]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_1_config-env]: _1_config-env "Config Env"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
