# DOS Attack

## **7.4.3 Denial of service**

A denial of service (DoS) attack is an attempt to make a web application unavailable to its users. The most common method of such an attack involves saturating the target server with HTTP requests, such that it can no longer respond to legitimate traffic, and thus causing the web application to appear to be down. DoS attacks are among the most frustrating attacks because there’s no generic solution for preventing them or for relieving your servers when a DoS attack is under way.

Denial of service attacks affect all web applications, but third-party applications are particularly at risk. Because third-party apps are accessed from other web pages, a surge of traffic on any one property can cause problems for your service. It doesn’t even need to be an intentional attack against one of your publishers. All it takes is one Justin Bieber fansite contest to send a never-before-seen level of traffic to your widget.8

The normal prevention-and-response measures for such events revolve around network hardware and, unfortunately, are outside the scope of this book. But we do have one recommendation: if you’re registering publishers, consider creating a unique sub-domain for each publisher from which to serve files (say, publisher.camerastork.com).

That way, you’ll be more capable of shutting off or limiting requests to specific publisher endpoints if they’re causing too many requests to your application. This will help your service better weather both DoS and random high-traffic events.

---

#### From [[_4_publisher-vulnerabilities]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_4_publisher-vulnerabilities]: _4_publisher-vulnerabilities "Publisher Vulnerabilities"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
