# Optimizing Payload

## **9.1 Optimizing Payload**

In front-end speak, payload is everything that a normal, graphical browser has to down-
load in order to run your application. This includes not just JavaScript and CSS files,

but also images, font files, HTML documents used for cross-domain channels, and data
returned from a web service API. We’re talking about every conceivable resource an
application needs to load in order to operate.
But which files an application needs to download often depends on how a user

interacts with an application—which can vary. So, when thinking about front-end per-
formance, your goal should be to optimize your application for the average user. This

is why we prefer to focus on what we call the initial payload: the minimum set of
resources a browser has to download in order to initialize and load your third-party
JavaScript application for an average visitor.

The goal of this section is to show you how to optimize the initial payload of your
application. We’ll do this by reducing its overall file size, reducing the number of

HTTP requests necessary, and deferring non-essential resources until they’re abso-
lutely necessary. To achieve this, we’ll look at a number of techniques: combining

JavaScript and CSS files, spriting and inlining images, and file caching. Then we’ll
move into the more complicated topic of deferring non-essential resources. First up:
optimizing your initial payload by combining and minifying your application’s
JavaScript and CSS files.
HIGH PERFORMANCE WEB SITES AND EVEN FASTER WEB SITES Only a couple of

years ago it was hard to find good material on front-end optimization tech-
niques. But thanks to front-end performance champions like Steve Souders,

today we have a good number of books and articles dedicated to the subject.
Unfortunately, we can’t hope to cover all the content from these materials in

a single chapter. But if you’d like to read more, we strongly recommend pick-
ing up two books authored by Steve Souders et al.: High Performance Web Sites

(O’Reilly, 2007) and its follow-up Even Faster Web Sites (O’Reilly, 2009).

## **Sub-chapters**

---

#### From [[_performance]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_performance]: ../_performance "9️⃣ Performance"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
