# Embed iFrames

## 3.4 Embedding Content in iFrames

There’s one way to render your widget such that it can’t be impacted by the pub-
lisher’s style rules, and that’s by rendering all of your HTML and CSS inside an iframe.

**Figure 3.4 Iframes enable you to embed separate HTML documents into a web page.**
**They don’t inherit CSS rules from the parent page.**

Iframes were designed for this specific task: they’re “inline” frames that let you embed content from another web page. Because they use a separate window and DOM envi- ronment, they don’t inherit any parent styles, and are unlikely to be accidentally queried by a rogue script (see figure 3.4). This comes at a cost: HTML and CSS served behind iframes are less flexible and less customizable than rendering directly on the publisher’s DOM.

Using iframes is at first straightforward. You begin by creating a new iframe element and appending it to a target location in the page, just as you would any other HTML element. There’s one small catch: iframes don’t adjust their size to fit their contents, so you’ll need to manually specify the height and width. You’ll also want to reset some default iframe styles, like border.
2

Here’s what the code looks like; it creates a new 250 x 300 pixel borderless iframe
that also happens to be completely empty:

```javascript
var iframe = document.createElement("iframe");
iframe.style.width = "250px";
iframe.style.height = "300px";
iframe.style.border = "none";
target.parentNode.insertBefore(iframe, target);
```

2 The actual default border style for iframes is border: 2px inset, which looked great—in 1998.

Before the iframe can be useful, it needs to be filled with content (HTML and CSS),
which you can do using one of two techniques. The most common use case is to load a
remote document inside the iframe. This is done by assigning an external URL to the
iframe’s src property before appending the iframe to the DOM. But even without
loading a remote document, it’s still possible to embed content in iframes by using
what we call src-less iframes.
SOME IFRAME HISTORY Iframes were first introduced in Internet Explorer 4
by Microsoft in 1997, and later became standardized in HTML 4.0. The HTML
4.0 standard also described other frame-related elements such as frame,
frameset, and noframe, but all of these, with the exception of iframe,
became deprecated in HTML5. Iframes stayed because they were recognized
and embraced by the web community as a good way to combine different

pages into one and to create things such as web mashups—pages that com-
bine data from two or more sources to create a new service.

On that note, credit where credit is due: at times it may seem like we
unfairly pick on Microsoft in this book, but we can’t deny that some of the
web’s best technologies—including XmlHttpRequest and iframes—came out
of Redmond.

We’ll look at both ways of using iframes: without setting a src attribute, and by load-
ing content from an external URL. We’ll then look at how we can inherit and pass

basic styles from the parent page to an iframe element. When you’re convinced of the
infinite usefulness of iframes, we’ll finish with a discussion of where iframes aren’t
always suitable. We’ll begin with iframes where you don’t set a src attribute.

## **Sub-chapters**

- [[1_src-less-iframes]]
- [[2_external-iframes]]
- [[3_inherit-styles]]
- [[4_refrain-iframe]]

---

#### From [[_html-css]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_src-less-iframes]: 1_src-less-iframes "Src Less iFrames"
[2_external-iframes]: 2_external-iframes "External iFrames"
[3_inherit-styles]: 3_inherit-styles "Inherit Styles"
[4_refrain-iframe]: 4_refrain-iframe "Refrain iFrame"
[_html-css]: ../_html-css "3️⃣ HTML & CSS"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
