# Single Page Sessions

## **6.2.3 Single-page sessions for Chrome and Firefox**

So far, we’ve talked about workarounds for Internet Explorer, Opera, and Safari. Two major browsers are sorely missing from that list: Chrome and Firefox, which don’t transmit cookies to third-party domains if third-party cookies are disabled. Today, those two browsers account for more than 50% of all web users (see http://en.wikipedia.org/ wiki/Usage_share_of_web_browsers). Those users will be completely unable to persist sessions with your third-party application if they’ve disabled third-party cookies in their browser settings.

Without persistence, you’re left with one choice: temporarily storing the session ID in your third-party application for the duration that the user is on the page. This means that when you authenticate a user, instead of storing the user’s session ID in a cookie, you persist the session ID in a variable in your application. Then, if the user wants to perform an action that requires authentication (say, rate a product), you pass the session ID as a GET or POST parameter of the HTTP request made to the server.

Just as before, your server validates the session ID and, if successful, performs the requested action.

Because these sessions are only preserved for the duration that the user is on the page, the experience isn’t as good. Users will have to re-authenticate if they refresh the page, or visit your application hosted on a different publisher website. But it’s bet- ter than just rejecting authentication from these browser users entirely.

It’s worth noting that if you’re using single-page sessions, this session ID should be preserved securely behind an external iframe hosted on your domain. If you store the session ID on code executing on the publisher’s page, it’s conceivable that a mali- cious publisher could access the variable and steal a visitor’s session. Stealing a user’s session ID could allow the publisher to falsely identify themselves as that user with your application.

The scenario we just described is an example of session hijacking. Third-party sessions, whether persisted using third-party cookies, or preserved temporarily on a single page, are susceptible to being hijacked in a number of ways. Let’s dive deeper.

---

#### From [[_2_setting-cookies]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_2_setting-cookies]: _2_setting-cookies "Setting Cookies"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
