# Setting Cookies

## **6.2 Setting 3rd-Party Cookies**

As you learned in the last section, there are three browsers that send preexisting cook-
ies to third-party URLs even if third-party cookies are disabled: Internet Explorer,

Safari, and Opera. The problem is getting those cookies there to begin with; you can’t
create new cookies from your application when third-party cookies are disabled. If you
can somehow find a way to create a new cookie on your application’s domain, then
you’re in the clear. But how?

We’ll look at two workarounds for setting cookies in situations where third-party
cookies are disabled. The first relies on setting cookies in new windows opened by
your third-party application, whereupon those cookies are considered to be first-party.
The second workaround is a special-case scenario that uses iframes and forms to set

cookies, but only works in Safari browsers (desktop and mobile). Afterward, we’ll dis-
cuss an alternative to cookies for Chrome and Firefox, because those browsers don’t

transmit cookies even if they already exist.

## **Sub-chapters**

- [[1_dedicated-window]]
- [[2_iframe-safari]]
- [[3_single-page-sessions]]

---

#### From [[_auth-sessions]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_dedicated-window]: 1_dedicated-window "1_dedicated-window"
[2_iframe-safari]: 2_iframe-safari "iFrame Safari"
[3_single-page-sessions]: 3_single-page-sessions "Single Page Sessions"
[_auth-sessions]: ../_auth-sessions "6️⃣ Auth & Sessions"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
