# Basic App Flow

## 2.3.2 Basic Application Flow

Moving on, let’s look at the function calls that are taking place in the main application

body from listing 2.2. These are high-level functions that implement the basic applica-
tion flow described in figure 2.4. Not all third-party applications will need to follow

these exact steps, but it’s a good starting place.

**Figure 2.4 High-level application fow for widget.js**

The first function, loadSupportingFiles, is intended to load any supporting files

needed by the application before continuing. It’s not always necessary to load addi-
tional files, but many applications can benefit by splitting up their JavaScript distribut-
ables into separate downloads, so we’ve included it as a step. This function accepts a

single parameter: a callback function that’s intended to execute after loadSupport-
Files is finished:

loadSupportingFiles(function() {
var params = getWidgetParams();
Load supporting
files

Fetch product

data Identify product Render product

**Figure 2.4 High-level application flow for widget.js**

getRatingData(params, function() {
drawWidget();
});
});
In the callback function, any parameters passed to the script are extracted using
getWidgetParams. For now, the Camera Stork example will make use of a single
parameter: the ID of the product the publisher is trying to display on their website.
But there are plenty of other parameters you could pass. For example, you could
embed identifying information about the publisher in the script include snippet, and
pass that information to your servers. This could be useful if you want to track which

publishers are sending you traffic—the Camera Stork business could even pay publish-
ers affiliate revenue for each sale they help generate.

After the script has extracted those parameters, it’s time to get data about the
product from the server using the getRatingData function. This data will be the
name of the product, perhaps a URL where the product can be purchased, and the
current rating or score. As a final step, after the data has been received from the
server, the application uses this data to render the actual widget on the page. This
takes place inside the drawWidget function.

It’s worth noting that none of these functions exist yet. We’ve strictly taken a high-
level overview of the widget.js code. You’ll be implementing these functions over the

next few sections. Let’s start with the first: loadSupportingFiles.

---

#### From [[_3_init-script]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_3_init-script]: _3_init-script "Init Script"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
