# Versioning

## **8.2 Versioning**

Up until this point, you’ve implemented a number of public functions for the Camera
Stork JavaScript SDK. Let’s imagine for a moment that you’ve distributed your SDK to
publishers, and they’re happily using it to render widgets and bind to application
events.

What happens when you, the Camera Stork developer, want to introduce changes to those public functions, now that they’re already in use by publishers? Revising and improving your software is normal practice, but by doing so, you risk breaking publishers’ code.

Let’s look at an example. Up until this point, the Stork.productWidget has
looked like this: `Stork.productWidget({ id: 1337, dom: 'stork-widget-location' });`

Here, the target render location (dom) is a string that contains a DOM element ID. But
let’s say that you’d like to modify Stork.productWidget to accept a CSS selector string

instead. This will give SDK publishers more flexibility in designating where the prod-
uct widget should be rendered. Here’s an example of the “new” Stork.product-
Widget in action, using a class selector for the dom configuration parameter:

Stork.productWidget({ id: 1337, dom: '.stork-widget-location-class' });
This is a subtle change, but the effects are far-reaching. The problem is that if you
were to introduce this change, anybody who was using the Stork.productWidget

function previously would be in for a nasty surprise: the function will no longer inter-
pret their DOM parameter as a DOM ID, and the widget will likely not render at the

location they intended. Imagine this happening across thousands of publisher web
pages—a devastating scenario.

The solution to this problem is versioning. As an SDK provider, you enable publish-
ers to load a particular version of your SDK. That way, you can introduce breaking

changes in future versions of the SDK and feel safe knowing that they won’t break any
of your publishers’ existing code, because the library your publishers are loading—the
earlier version—will remain unchanged.

We’ll look at a couple of ways to version your SDK. First, we’ll discuss giving pub-
lishers a unique URL to your SDK’s script file that has a version number embedded

inside. Then, we’ll explore an alternate technique in which publishers specify a ver-
sion number during your SDK’s initialization (via Stork.init).

## **Sub-chapters**

- [[1_url-versioning]]
- [[2_version-init]]

---

#### From [[_3rd-party-js-SDK]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_url-versioning]: 1_url-versioning "URL Versioning"
[2_version-init]: 2_version-init "Version Init"
[_3rd-party-js-SDK]: ../_3rd-party-js-SDK "8️⃣ 3rd Party JS SDK"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
