# Testing

## **10.2 Testing**

Developing a web application without tests is like playing Russian roulette with your
deploys: you might get lucky a few times, but sooner or later you’ll push broken code
that will bring down your application. This isn’t because you’re a bad developer;
everyone makes mistakes. Web application bugs aren’t always immediately obvious.

Bugs can be introduced by a completely unrelated change to the code you’re modify-
ing, and it’s hard to spot them without extensive, system-wide testing. This is why auto-
matic testing is extremely important for any software project—including third-party

JavaScript applications.
But testing third-party widgets isn’t easy. You have to run tests in all supported
browsers and make sure that your tests cover common functionality as well as browser

quirks. In addition to that, most web-testing frameworks don’t provide sufficient isola-
tion mechanisms for individual tests and test suites. This means that if your app uses

any kind of global state—and most nontrivial widgets do—you have to manually reset
that state after each and every test or different tests can conflict with each other in
unpredictable ways. Same goes with regression tests—tests that make sure you don’t
introduce new bugs while pushing features. How do you write a test case that makes
sure Camera Stork works fine on pages that overwrite the special toJSON method
without affecting all other tests? In this section, we’ll answer that question and others
in regard to testing third-party JavaScript applications, using different web-testing
frameworks and platforms. But first we’ll go over different types of tests and explain
their purpose.

## **Sub-chapters**

---

#### From [[_debugging-testing]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[_debugging-testing]: ../_debugging-testing "🔟 Debugging & Testing"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
