# Loading Additional Files

## 2.4 Loading Additional Files

- It’s possible that your third-party script might only rely on a single JavaScript file.
- But it’s more likely that, like most web applications, your script will depend on a number of supporting files.
- These could be files of your own (such as a script that contains helper functions), or files that contain helpful JavaScript libraries, like jQuery or Prototype.js.
- Often you’ll need to have these files in place before your script can perform any further actions.

- You could always expand the script include snippet to include any additional files you intend to load.
- For example, you could ask publishers to include the following code on their pages:

```html
<script src="http://camerastork.com/widget/jquery.js"></script>
<script src="http://camerastork.com/widget/helpers.js"></script>
<script src="http://camerastork.com/widget.js"></script>
```

- This will work; it loads the supporting files (jquery.js, helpers.js) before the main wid- get file (widget.js).
- But altering the script include snippet like this is a really bad idea.
- Colossally bad.
- It’s bad because it’s incredibly inflexible; you’re committed to always loading these files.
- If you ever need to change what files you’re depending on, you won’t be able to, because this code is stuck on the publishers’ pages.
- And getting publishers to update their HTML source with new code is notoriously difficult.

- What you want to do is stick with the original script include snippet, which loads a single script file that serves as the entry point for the application.
- After that initial script is loaded, you’ll then load any additional supporting files dynamically using JavaScript.
- In this section, you’ll learn how to do that, beginning with plain JavaScript files that you’ve written, and then moving on to popular JavaScript libraries.

## **Sub-Chapters**

- [[1_js-files]]
- [[2_libraries]]

---

#### From [[_dist-loading]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[1_js-files]: 1_js-files "JS Files"
[2_libraries]: 2_libraries "Libraries"
[_dist-loading]: ../_dist-loading "2️⃣ Dist & Loading"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
